# Japes Request for Comments

This repository manages the Request for Comments (RFC) process in the Japes Programming Language. RFCs are the mechanism by which major language changes are made and are a way to solicit feedback and suggestions from the community.

## Licensing

To preserve both the authority and accessibility of the Japes Requests for Comments (RFC), a triple-licensing approach is used in this repository. When the assets involved are source code (including metacode such as BNF), you may either choose the [GNU General Public License version 3](GPLv3.txt) (GPLv3) with the [Classpath Exception](claspath.md) or the [MIT License](MIT.txt) except when that code may be found in the `/src` subdirectory. Code from the `/src` subdirectory is exclusively licensed under the GPLv3 with the Classpath Exception. All non-code works in this repository are licensed under the [Creative Commons 4.0 BY-ND](CC_BY_ND.txt) license.

## Applicability of RFC 1

Like in Marbury v. Madison, the first RFC must somehow gain its own legitimacy. RFC 1 shall become binding whenever it has been merged into [ratified/0001/](ratified/0001/README.md) from a pull request. RFC 1 shall specifically relate to the procedure by which RFCs are handled. RFC 1 is self-executing; after that, policy may only be modified through the RFC process.

## Directory Structure

The RFC repository has the following structure:

- `ratified/` - the index of ratified RFCs.
	- */^[0-9]{4}$/* - A directory containing the contents of the RFC of that accession. Unless amended, it is binding.
	- `history.rfc` - The RFC ledger used to track the publication history of ratified RFCs.
	- `history.rsd` - The initial seed, set to the contents of RFC 1.
- `draft` - the index of draft RFC proposals.
	- *github-user*/ - Draft RFC proposals belonging to the indicated user. Its subdirectories indicate names of working proposals.
- `src` - Utility source code. It is licensed under the GPLv3.

## Vibe Coding Prohibited

This project makes no comment on the general state of generative artificial intelligence (AI) and its metaphysical properties except to say that the proposition of whether machines can or cannot be intelligent is not testable in the present. It is absolutely imperative that all of the code produced by this project is (to the greatest extent possible) free from defect. Pull Request (PR) acceptance is conditional on your code being free from work products (e.g., code, specifications, or documentation) derived from AI. When applied to the context of writing software, this practice is sometimes known as "vibe coding". This practice should be avoided at all costs within the repositories in `japeslang`. It is not feasible to prevent AI from analyzing the code and offering pointers. It is this project's current position to do nothing to prevent that. It is possible that generative AI may make a useful screening tool in any event.

Regardless of its future capability, generative AI at the time of writing has a reputation for its readiness to hallucinate. That's to be expected from any machine model (to say nothing of one that shares attributes in common with biological neural networks). Legality may vary by jurisdiction, but precedent is relatively convincing that non-humans cannot originate copyright. Models may unwittingly include patents to which no contributor may grant a license to, and they may lift code from textbooks which are still very much copyrighted. 

Support for AI was once made available in a rudimentary and easily broken form, but the offer was always rescindable, and this recission has occurred. It may not be undone barring an RFC; as RFC1 has not even been written yet, there is no plan to officially support this in the future. Therefore, the rights afforded to you respecting AI are the set of the rights you have always had. These are the rights given by a work product's license, which is mostly GPLv3 + Classpath (but which in some cases may include CC_BY_ND4.0 or MIT).  The vibe-code moratorium remains, however: no PR will be accepted if there exists unresolved suspiscion or knowledge of it containing work products generated by AI.